Revamping lifecycle docs (#75)
r-lib/lifecycle: vignettes/lifecycle.Rmd

#' switching to `pivot_longer()`, which is easier to use, more featureful,
#' and still under active development.
#' 
#' In brief,
#' `df %>% gather("key", "value", x, y, z)` is equivalent to
#' `df %>% pivot_longer(c(x, y, z), names_to = "key", values_to = "value")`.
#' See more details in `vignette("pivot")`.
```

The rest of the documentation can stay the same.

## Arguments

### Deprecating, keeping existing default

Take this example where we want to deprecate `na.rm` in favour of always making it `TRUE.`

```{r}
add_two <- function(x, y, na.rm = TRUE) {
  sum(x, y, na.rm = na.rm)
}
```

First, add a badge to the argument description:

```{r}
#' @param na.rm `r lifecycle::badge("deprecated")` `na.rm = FALSE` is no
#'   longer supported; this function will always remove missing values
```

And add a deprecation warning if `na.rm` is FALSE.
In this case, there's no replacement to the behaviour, so we instead use `details` to provide a custom message:

```{r}
add_two <- function(x, y, na.rm = TRUE) {
  if (!isTRUE(na.rm)) {
    lifecycle::deprecate_warn(
      when = "1.0.0", 
      what = "add_two(na.rm = )",

>       details = "Ability to remove missing values will be dropped in next release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      details = "Ability to remove missing values will be dropped in next release."
```

    )
  }
  
  sum(x, y, na.rm = na.rm)
}

add_two(1, NA, na.rm = TRUE)
add_two(1, NA, na.rm = FALSE)
```

### Deprecating, with new default

> Alternatively, you can change the default value to `lifecycle::deprecated()` to make the deprecation status more obvious from the outside, and use `lifecycle::is_present()`[^1] to test whether or not the argument was provided.

Reviewer: I wonder if `lifecycle::is_supplied()` wouldn't be clearer.

[^1]: Unlike `missing()`, this works for both direct and indirect calls.

```{r}
#' @importFrom lifecycle deprecated
add_two <- function(x, y, na.rm = deprecated()) {
  if (lifecycle::is_present(na.rm)) {
    lifecycle::deprecate_warn(
      when = "1.0.0", 
      what = "add_two(na.rm = )",
      details = "Ability to remove missing values will be dropped in next release"
    )
  }
  
  sum(x, y, na.rm = na.rm)
}
```

> The chief advantage of this technique is that users will get a warning regardless of what value of `na.rm` they use:

Reviewer: Is the previous example ever desirable? If we want to remove an argument from a function we need to make sure it isn't provided by users. I would consider the last case to be an anti-example.

Author: The main problem is that it causes unconditional deprecation warnings, even when the behaviour hasn't changed. That forces package developers to immediately add some `if (packageVersion())` switch, even if the behaviour hasn't actually changed. But maybe that's an argument for going via `deprecate_soft()`?

Reviewer: Agreed that `deprecate_soft()` would make sense, then dependencies don't need to send a preemptive release with `if (packageVersion())`. They can bump the dependency version instead of using conditional logic.

It seems that you are describing a kind of "soft" deprecation procedure for removing an argument, with one additional stage where you only deprecate supplied arguments that flip the default. However most users will fall in that category, so that new stage will take a lot of time only for the convenience of the few users who explicitly supplied the default value.

```{r}
add_two(1, NA, na.rm = TRUE)
add_two(1, NA, na.rm = FALSE)
```

### Renaming

If you realise you have made a mistake with the name of an argument.

> For example, you've realised that accidentally used `.` to separate a compound name, instead of `_`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you've realised that an argument accidentally uses `.` to separate a compound name, instead of `_`.
```
